as we know we will be given with this sorted rotated
array
Thus it will have two sorted sub arrays
And the pivot element or the smallest element in
the array will be the first element of the second sub
array if you see here pivot element will have
a bigger number before it
With this fact we can figure out the pivot element
easily
Let's have two variable start and end in each iteration
First we shall find the mid element and check whether
we have a pivot element next to it
This we can do it by comparing Element at array
of mid an array of mid plus One here start is
zero and end is six thus mid will be zero plus six
Divided by two
that's three an array of mid is 20 and 20
is not greater than its next element
Thus 25
is not a peak element
Now we have to find out which of the two
sub arrays hold our pivot element
Let us take this sub array from start to mid
which holds the pivot element here
The first element 60 is greater than the last element
20 this half is not in sorted order whereas the
other sub array from mid to end is sorted
With this it is clear that the sub array which
holds the pivot element will not be in sorted order
Thus the larger case if array of start greater than
array of mid the first half it's not sorted
So adjust end to mid else check if array
of mid is greater than an array of end If this returns
true then the second half is not sorted and so
adjust start to mid
Coming back to example in this iteration array of start is
greater than an array of mid so let us
adjust end to mid and continue the search in
this sub array in the next iteration start is zero and
end is three
Thus mid will be one an array of mid is 70
check if array of mid is greater
An array of mid plus 1 70 is not greater than
Next we will check if the first half of the
array is unsorted here array starts 60 is not greater than
array of mid 70
Whereas array of mid 70 is greater than array of
end 20
That's the second half is unsorted here Hence we can
point start to mid Now start is one and end is three
mid will be two an array of Mid is 80 compare
array of mid an array of mid plus one here
eighties greater than 20
Thus we have identified the pivot element which is
20 and is present index three.